You weren't invited, were you?
Hey! You're Karasuno's #10!
Why, you...
What the hell do you think you're
doing, Hinata?! Damn it!
Hinata-kun,
being a go-getter and absolutely thoughtless
are two different things.
It's not that I think practicing here is
more important than practicing at Karasuno.
But I want to participate at a
training camp that's going to be
filled with strong players.
Without that setter, Kageyama,
I can't say that I sense any worth in you.
If you don't want to be a ball boy,
you can go home at any time.
Sorry for interrupting practice!
I'm a first-year from Karasuno High School!
Hinata Shoyo!
I'm 164 cm tall!
And my position is ball boy!
Thank you for having me!
Haikyu!!
Episode 2: Lost
We have one month until
the Spring Tournament.
I want you to use this time to
improve on the one and only
powerful individual skill in volleyball...
The serve.
I say this all the time, but don't just
do your reps to get them over with.
You need to always visualize
that you're in an actual game.
Right!
All right! Make sure
I can hear you, newbies!
Right!
All right, if you'll excuse me, Sensei.
Here I go!
I'm gonna go for a bit.
You're heading to Yamagata, right?
One more!
Yeah. I need to go see
my senpai from college.
All right, here we go!
I'm also gonna pop into Shiratorizawa
on the way without imposing.
I'll have to save lecturing Hinata
for when we get back tomorrow.
I'm having Tattsun come by just in case.
He should be here any minute.
Thank you very much.
By the way, about Ukai-sensei
possibly showing up...
So yeah...
Gramps hasn't been feeling well lately,
so he's back in the hospital.
I see...
Oh, no, no. It's not a big deal.
Well, see ya later.
Thanks.
Usually, you'd face each other
from opposing teams in the qualifiers.
But while you're here,
you're not opponents.
Just the fact that you're doing something
out of the ordinary is important.
Take whatever you can from each
other and get even better.
That's all.
Thank you very much!
Let's see...
First, we're going to do passing drills.
We're going to have you
remember each other's names.
Hi!
Make sure you pair with someone that's
not completely equal with you.
Come on! Get a move on!
Wow, he really is the odd man out.
Even though he's a regular
on Karasuno's roster...
Um... We heard you're from Karasuno
and helping as ball boy.
Shiratorizawa
Academy
Yes!
It's Karasuno's #10...
Um, we're rookie first-years
from Shiratorizawa.
We're supposed to be helping out,
too, so it's nice to work with you.
Right back at you!
Man, two meters really is huge.
I wonder how everything looks
when you're two meters tall.
The guy started volleyball in high school,
yet he's been chosen to be here.
Your arms aren't facing the right way.
He gets to start from a completely
different place than us.
Turn you arms so the inside is showing more.
All right, next. Spiking drills!
Hey.
You're going the wrong way, ball boy.
Sorry! I went the wrong way!
Just place the ball...
Set!
How was my set?
Fine, I guess?
Tell me more!
Koganegawa from Date Tech.
His technical skills are lacking,
but he seems to be getting taller.
Nice!
Very nice. A giant setter.
Nice kill!
Yes.
Was that a bit too high?
Yeah, a little.
I'll correct it.
A third-year from Shiratorizawa
Junior High School, Yura Shota.
Nice kill!
I see he has no problem communicating
with the older players.
Nice kill!
And the technical skills are there.
C-Crap!
Safe!
Be more careful!
Pick up those damn balls!
Yes, sir!
Keep your eyes on them!
He's getting yelled at more than us.
I wonder why Washijo-sensei didn't
just send that kid packing?
If he's not going to practice, he
should just force him to go home.
He's usually not interested
in small players, right?
Supposedly.
Nice kill!
What a waste. I'd totally
nurture him as a wing spiker.
Nice kill!
Well, Karasuno did manage to take the
Spring Tournament from them this year.
Nice kill!
Maybe he's getting back at them.
Like he'd ever do something so immature.
Nice kill!
Man, I'm starving...
Let's go home.
Yeah.
That little shrimp...
He's not the same newbie
he was in junior high school.
He must've put in a lot of work.
Damn it. I guess jump
serves are pretty hard.
Come to think of it... This is the first
time I've ever just been the ball boy.
Even when I played with the
older ladies or in junior high,
they'd still let me practice.
What were you doing
for the last three years?
I'll defeat you next time.
I'm going on ahead.
I can't...
stop!
Hey...
Could you hurry up and get ready to leave?
Unlike the King's camp,
this isn't an excused absence.
We have to go to school tomorrow, like usual.
Tsukishima-san.
I-I-I-I'm... sorry for the trouble—
Yeah, could you not apologize?
It's not like being an impulsive
dumbass is anything new for you.
You mad that you can't even
really touch the ball?
Serves you right.
Wanna cry, saying you're gonna quit?
Keep doing your best, ball boy.
Make sure you don't waste a
precious five days of practice
before the Spring Tournament.
Faculty Room
Man, that Hinata from Karasuno
was messing around with the
ball until the very end.
Though I was still surprised when
he crashed the training camp.
I don't mind youngins
who are a bit reckless.
But,
even if he shows an exceeding
amount of effort
or determination during this camp,
I have no intention of letting
him join the practice.
Hey!
Gimme back this week's "Jump"!
I'm still reading "Removes Unnecessary Hair
and Leaves Skin Feeling Silky Smooth."
Could you read the actual
manga instead of the adverts?
By the way, you're gonna go to the
first-years' training camp tomorrow, right,
Wakatoshi-kun?
Yeah.
Haikyu!!
Camp (Back the same day)
All Japan Youth
So...
Did you really think they'd let
you join the practice if you went?
Keep quiet
Everyone's so far ahead of me,
so I wanted to do something to catch up.
I mean, he's not wrong. And yet...
That doesn't make it okay for
you to cause everyone trouble.
Right.
So you're saying
that Washijo-sensei doesn't
care if Hinata's here or not?
Well, uh... Actually, yeah.
So you volunteered to be a ball boy?
Yup.
You stuck your nose in all this.
You'd better not regret this.
Think about what it is that
only you can do there.
Also... Don't go underestimating
what it takes to be a ball boy.
Faculty Room
"He who climbs the ladder
must begin at the bottom."
To become good at something,
you must follow the proper steps.
That is all. Is there
anything you'd like to say?
No, sir.
Faculty Room
Please excuse me.
One lecture after another for you, eh?
What about Daichi-san?
He got me first thing this morning.
Potato
Karasuno High School
Volleyball Club
How many times do I have to tell you...
You need to always considering how
your actions will affect others!
Good going, Hinata!
Suga!
Whoops, my bad.
Well, I mean...
You are pretty sucky.
Make sure you learn a
special move or something.
You don't really get the opportunity
to play with players from other teams.
Don't panic too much.
I'm sorry.
Shoyo!
How's the training camp going?
Th-The guy who's two meters
tall is super huge!
So that one guy's there, too? Uh... Manzawa!
You mean Hyakuzawa!
One, two, three, four...
Five, six, seven, eight...
Shoyo, could you make the drinks again?
Two, two, three four...
Five, six, seven, eight...
Got it.
Today, we'll be doing serve and spike drills.
After that, we'll have a practice game.
Right!
Hey! Wake up!
Sorry!
A perfect line shot...
Whoa!
Nice kill.
Tsutomu!
Yes, sir.
The way your body's facing.
You're completely obvious.
Nice kill!
Come at me, Hyakuzawa!
What the heck was that?
It was so cool!
Do another one of those perfect line shots!
All right next, form up for a game!
Right!
Shoyo, get the vests!
Oh, right!
Nagamatsu!
Nice receive!
Left!
Two blockers!
Apparently that Nagamatsu guy's
a third-year in junior high.
He's gonna be coming to our school, right?
Man, I can't believe he's younger than us.
Heya.
Looks like they're here.
Hello!
Ugh...
So we're really lucky.
Some third-years and alumni
from Shiratorizawa
agreed to play a practice
match with you boys.
Bleh.
Seriously?
It's Ushijima-san!
You acting like a hotshot, Tsutomu?
Ushiwaka... It's actually him.
Sorry!
A practice match...
with Ushiwaka!
First, decide on who's going to
play and the signs you'll use.
Talk to each other.
I spot the #10 from Karasuno!
I'm gonna cut you down to size even more!
I—
Hey!
Could you make me more drinks?
Right! Sorry!
Let's play!
Blockers!
You put your hands down way too early!
Don't give up the block that easily!
Yes, sir.
And you need to stop crouching
too low before you block.
That's why you're always late.
Yes, sir!
Someone could've followed up on that!
I need to hear your voices more!
Talk to your teammates!
Wakatoshi!
So heavy...
Koganegawa! Another serve's coming!
Hey!
Oh, right!
Just because we're at the net, it doesn't
mean we have to slam the ball through.
Right.
Time for a lap of diving drills!
Right!
So...
Why aren't ya playing?
B-Because...
I wasn't actually chosen to be here...
Huh?! Then why the heck are you here?
I-I crashed their practice...
Did you hear that, Wakatoshi-kun?!
This kid's totally crazy!
So...
What are you even doing?
Come on, let's go mop the court.
Right!
I'll go get it!
Rolling...
Thunder...
Double!
Tanaka just got run over by Nishinoya!
Nishinoya! Tanaka!
Wait, why am I getting yelled at?!
The hell are you two doing?!
Why aren't they actually
resting during break time?
My bad!
Noya-san ran into me!
Yeah...
You need to take this more seriously!
Hey.
We'll be doing serves next.
Right!
Bring it!
Nice serve!
Out!
Don't worry about it, Asahi-san!
Here I go!
Nice serve!
Out!
Ukai-kun.
What's the matter?
Here I go!
Nice receive!
In order to win the
upcoming tournament,
we can't lose any of our current players.
That obviously includes Hinata.
But because of that, we've limited
what Hinata should be doing.
All for what's best for the team.
In a way, we're doing the
same thing as Washijo-sensei
and going with the most effective method.
But that's also why we have weapons that
have been polished to be their best.
One more!
Not to mention, Hinata-kun understands
this more than anyone else...
Here I go!
The fact that he's got a
mountain of stuff to work on.
Here I go!
One more!
So I'm sure that makes him panic a bit.
If we can always present the
correct answer to them, we should.
But the best thing we can do is make
sure that they don't stop thinking,
and to make sure they keep searching
what's best for them. Don't you think?
Not to mention...
We're not the only ones thinking here.
I think we can win the next one!
Pretty sure you're imagining it.
But our blocks are finally starting to work.
Now that our blocks are
actually coming together,
it makes things in the back much easier.
I need to have my team's
blockers learn from this.
So...
What...
the heck am I doing?!
What were you doing
for the last three years?
Make sure you don't waste a
precious five days of practice
before the Spring Tournament.
Don't panic too much.
Karasuno High School
Volleyball Club
I can't say that I sense any worth in you.
Just the fact that you're doing something
out of the ordinary is important.
...so what can you possibly do if your
technique is clumsy, too?
To become good at something,
you must follow the proper steps.
...you can go home at any time.
Also... Don't go underestimating
what it takes to be a ball boy.
So...
What are you even doing?
Find it!
Think!
I need to change my perspective!
I need to change the way I think!
Think about what it is that
only you can do there.
Think about what it is
that only I can do there.
Find it.
Episode 3: Point of View
Next time: "Point of View."